I have encountered and overcame many challenges throughout the course of Android App Development. 

One that stands out is a facial recognition device with thermal sensor technology. In the midst of COVID pandemic, it became common practice for businesses to check the temperatures of customers before allowing them into the business place. To facilitate temperature checking they had to station at least one employee at the entrance and this not only cut their usual manpower but also increased the risk of same employee getting the virus.

I realized an opportunity and started seeking a solution. I ended up purchasing the facial recognition system that checks temperature and writes captured information to a database from alibaba. This would allow businesses to utilize  their full labor force as originally intended and reduce employee exposure. 
After receiving the device and testing, I realized that it did well with capturing temperatures and images where necessary but I had a problem with the remote storage of the data. The admin panel provided, a website, was not displaying all data I wanted to capture and there were security concerns as well with the accessibility of it. I asked the seller for personalization but the cost quoted was too high for me. I then decided to re-engineer it because the device ran on Android OS.  I ventured into research mode on facial recognition, Android Camera API and thermal sensor. I visited documentations, stackoverflow, youtube and many other websites to gather information. I saved everything I deemed relevant and then went through the materials. I ended up finding the SDK for the thermal sensor included on the device and learned how to utilize facial recognition through the camera. I then deleted the app included on the device and installed my own. I was able to capture the data I wanted and write it to my own database. I also created an admin panel using ReactJS to access the data remotely as well. 

It was a difficult process but I was determined to get it done. I will include a picture of the device in the github repository. 